Interview Questions


General:


Introduce yourself

Do you smoke?

When do you plan to marry?

Do you have a Girlfriend?


Networking and System Admin:


Difference between Routed and Routing protocols. Give some protocol names of each.

Experience in linux?

Basic command, tell…

What is a subnet? Why it is used? Calculate the subnet of /28

Diff of lan/wan/man

Osi layer 

Which layer tcp is in?

IPv4 v6 difference.. bit,

Introduce yourself, your highlights, overview… representation of the candidate

What is the most challenging thing you have done?

Scripting? Did you do before? Can you do bash scripting?

How long do you take to learn new things?

Tell something about your family members.

GSM vs CDMA vs Wimax

2G vs 3G vs 4G

GSM Call establishment architecture

Basic archi of Wimax

How do you design a small office?

How does a routing table look like?

What is IPTABLES?

TCP vs UDP?

Kernel vs shell? 

What is the most used shell?

PS command...can you use it?

Pipe in linux?

What is VMware?

What is RAID? Why should you do this to a linux server?

What is SMTP?

What is IPMP?

What is VPN? How does it work?





Software Development


What is Agile software development?

What is SCRUM methodology? How do you define a SCRUM sprint?

SDLC

HLD and LLD

Explain MVC and how do you implement them in your project?

How do you choose between PHP/ASP/JSP for a project?

Which languages did you work in?

Describe the project you work on

What is object orientation

How do you define encapsulation in OOP perspective

What is Polymorphism?

How do you react if you are asked to come at office at 11:00 pm

Database Query - Join, Nested Query, Insert, update, delete

Describe the ACID rules of an RDBMS

Swap operation in your preferred language

Queue vs Stack - discuss, code in your preferred language

Abstract class vs Interface - discuss when to use what, and how?

Can an interface inherit another interface? Explain.

What is scripting language? Is there any difference?

Server-side scripting language - PHP?

Exception-handling - what is this? Write in your preferred language

throw vs throws in Java

How do you manage database connectivity in PHP/Java/.NET?

Why do you need a nested loop?

The difference between while and do-while

What are the standard character sets in database?

Difference between GET and POST

HTTP over XML

SOAP vs XML over HTTP

What is an API

RESTful API?

Difference between JSON, XML

Structure vs Class - difference in terms of programming philosophy

Can we model an end-to-end solution using API?

Do you have any idea about service-oriented architecture (SOA)? Does API play any role in SOA?

JDK vs JRE vs JVM

What are the key features of Java?

What is immutable object? Why is String immutable in Java?

Write a simple error handling code in Java.

Explain NullPointerException in Java

Write 5 keywords of Java, which are not used in C/C++

Difference between Arraylist and Vector in Java

Arraylist vs Array

Do you know about singleton? 

What is the use of synchronized keyword?

What is a static variable? When do you need a static variable? Can you do the same using final (static vs final)?

Can you override private or static method in Java?

Why is main() method static in Java?

Briefly discuss the concept of Inheritance in Java

Which class is the superclass of every class?

When do you use thread in a software (Java)?

How do you implement a thread? Discuss run() method in Java.

Difference between class variable and instance variable in Java

Why do you need an constructor? Use any language to explain, if necessary.

Difference between continue and break in any language

What is a default constructor?

Can you make a constructor final in Java?

What is a final class?

Can a constructor be private? Explain.

Explain the use of this keyword in Java

JAR vs WAR files

Difference between Java and Javascript (object oriented vs object based programming)

Function overloading vs function overriding - any language

What is Wrapper class? Why is it used?

Why is generic used in Java?

What is Java serialization?

Discuss Java garbage collection

Explain the scopes of public, private and protected variables

Inner Class vs Nested Class

What is Package in Java? How does package work?

What is HTTPS? How does it work?

Describe SSL working principles

PHP-Database connectivity, how does it work?

Suppose you have a table named “Salary”. Write the SQL command to find the second highest salary from this table.

Suppose you have a query and the result has to be displayed in 10 different pages, 30 result items in each page. How would you load the data? All together or not?





.NET

OOP:

What is OOP?

What are the basics of OOP?

What is Encapsulation? Give an example based of programing.

What are the access modifiers of C#? What is the default access modifier in C#?

What is Interface? What is the uses of it? Why is an important pillar of OOP?

What is inheritance? What is derived class and parent class? 

Does C# support multiple inheritance? If yes explain how?

Explain polymorphism.

What is abstraction? When you will use an abstract class? Explain a real life abstraction situation?

Does abstract class has a constructor? What is the purpose of it where you cannot create an instance of abstract class.

What is delegate? What is the proper way of using delegate? Give an example of multiple delegate?

What is event is C#? Explain with an example.

What is boxing and unboxing?

Difference between structure and class.

What is serialization and deserialization? 

Build in Generics classes detail knowledge. Suppose List, ArrayList, HashTable stc. 

What is recursion? What is the disadvantages of using recursion? 

What is design pattern?

What is software architecture?

Difference between design pattern and software architecture.

What is singleton? 


****Write the output of a program****


Memory Management: 

Reference type and Value type detail knowledge.


Entity Framework: 

You should have the basic knowledge about entity framework and be confident to complete a CRUD operation using EF from scratch. 


MVC: 

What is MVC?

Difference between viewbag, tempbag and dataview.

On where view is rendering.  

Detail Knowledge of Session Management. Where session variable are stored? 

………………………………………………………………………………………………..



Note: What technology write on your CV,  you should have a detail knowledge about this.